Ten little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Nine little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Eight little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Seven little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Six little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Five little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Four little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Three little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Two little monkeys were jumping on the bed, but one fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

One little monkeys was jumping on the bed, but he fell off and broke his head. His mom took him to the doctor and the doctor said: "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"

Or around something like that. I'm not totally sure what the actual nursery rhyme or story, or children book says, but I'm sure it's something along those lines. I believe it is to teach counting, and to teach children not to jump on the bed or else they will get hurt. It's a little catchy but it is very repetitive. I guess repetition is good for helping children remember things for longer so that they wont forget about it later, and so that its also easy to remember in general.