The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. This is an example of pangram, which is a sentence that uses every letter of the alphabet at least once. It is used to test typewriters, keyboards, and display fonts. Pangrams are not usually used on purpose in day to day speech and text, but it can be useful to test out the lexicons of a digital interface or styling of the alphabet or font. Pangrams are not the only unique type of sentence that can exist. For example, another type of sentence that exists is the tongue twister. Tongue twisters are sentences that a hard to pronounce, due to factors such as repeated alliteration or wacky words with hard pronunciation. A common one is "How much wood could a woodchuck chuck, if a woodchuck could chuck wood?" where "wood" and "would" are pronounced the same, share the same end as "could" which the "C" sound is constantly paired either with "could" or "chuck", making the speaker switch repeatedly between four similar sounds in a difficult manner. It is also fun to note that a woodchuck does not in fact chuck wood, however if it were to chuck wood, then it would chuck approximately chuck 700 pounds or 320 kilograms of wood. The figure is derived from how much dirt they move when burrowing. There are also anagrams, which are words, phrases or names formed by rearranging the letters of another, such as cinema formed from iceman. An example in pop-culture of an anagram is in Pokémon where the Pokémon Rotom is an anagram of "motor" as it is an electric Pokémon that is also an appliance in some cases. A more basic anagram can be "reed" to "deer" as a deer can eat reeds. Another play on words is a kangaroo word, which is a word that has a smaller synonym inside of it. For example, "blossom" contains "bloom", or "destruction" containing "ruin". Some kangaroo words have even more words in them, such as "alone" having "lone" which also has "one", so they are referred to as "grand kangaroo words". Twin kangaroo words have two words, like "container" having "tin" and "can", or anti-kangaroo words which have and antonym instead of a synonym like "friend" containing "fiend" or "covert" containing "overt". You know another fun type of word? Palindromes are a type of word that is spelled the exact same way when spelled backwards. Examples of palindromes include "level", "civic", "poop", "kayak" or "racecar". Ironically, the fear of palindromes is called aibohphobia, which itself is a palindrome.