The strength of a Large Language Model- or simply LLM which is a type of AI is determined by its parameter count.

The parameter count of an LLM is determined by two factors in most circumstances and AI architectures. First is the neuron count, where the amount of neurons are the baseline size of the AI's processing power. The neuron count does not necessarily improve the performance of the LLM, however it usually does improve the LLM giving it more parameters to calculate proper responses and reasoning to prompts and generation.

The other major factor is the token count- particularly the vocabulary size, if the AI runs on tokenized vocabulary which effectively all current AI does. Tokens are chunks of words, take "university" as an example. A tokenizer algorithm can break university into "uni-", "-ity" and the original word "university" as tokens, especially if it is found to repeat numerous times within the training data. This allows an AI to use the suffixes and prefixes found in one word and use it in another word without having to save unique objects. For example once the tokens from "university" are logged, the AI may use the token "uni-" to make the word "unique", or the token "-ity" to make "formality". A good baseline vocabulary size is ~5,000 tokens, however a satisfactory level is usually around 32,000 tokens, which is around the same size as GPT-2. Newer LLMs as of right now use upwards of 50,000 tokens for a single language such as English, or even up to 100,000 to 200,000 tokens for multilingual LLMs or models with extensive vocabularies. For reference, humans normally have a vocabulary size ranging from 20,000 to 35,000 words, with the most being 5,000 to 10,000 used in every day life, which is similar to that 32,000 to 50,000 token size.

The neuron count array, vocabulary array, neuron count and vocabulary count are all combined to determine the amount of parameters that the LLM has, which is indicative of how extensive and powerful the AI can be. It is important to note that the "knowledge" of an AI is also indicative of how extensive of the training data that the LLM is trained on is. Bad data, even with high parameters and lots of training are going to produce bad results, therefore the overall performance of an AI is determined by both its internal systems and inputs- a good setup and input will produce a good output.