Earth is the third planet from the sun, on average approximately 93 million miles or 150 million kilometers from the Sun. There are a total of 8 major planets from the Sun. The first planet from the Sun is Mercury, which shares its name with an ancient Roman god and an element. Mercury is approximately 36 million miles or 58 million miles from the Sun. As Mercury does not any significant atmosphere, its daytime surface can reach temperatures as high as 427 degrees Celsius and as low as -173 degrees Celsius during the night. A year on Mercury lasts 88 Earth days, and a day lasts 58.65 Earth days. Venus is the second planet from the sun at around 67 million miles or 108 million kilometers. Venus is almost the size of Earth, yet its atmosphere has 92 times the pressure of Earth's atmosphere. Because its atmosphere is so thick and contains lot of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and sulfuric acid, its surface temperature is as high as 464 degrees Celsius or 867 degrees Fahrenheit, making it the hottest planet in the Solar System. On the hot planet, a day lasts 116.75 Earth days, about half of a year which is 224.7 Earth days. After Earth, the fourth planet is the Red Planet, also known as Mars. Mars is about 142 million miles or 228 million kilometers. though its orbit being more elliptical allows its distance to vary by almost 40 million kilometers. The atmosphere is incredibly weak, only fractions of Earth atmospheric pressure, composed of mainly carbon dioxide. Surface temperature on Mars at night is incredibly cold- at about -153 degrees Celsius or -243 degrees Fahrenheit. During the day, temperatures climb to a reasonable 20 degrees Celsius or 68 degrees Fahrenheit. Mars has been considered the next planetary body for humans to venture after the Moon, with numerous unmanned missions to Mars including dozens of rovers and satellites. It is the last of the rocky planets. The next four planets are all gas giants because of their massive size and gaseous composition separated by the Asteroid Belt between Mars and Jupiter. Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system, being the fifth planet from the Sun. Jupiter is massive, that it had 2.5 times the amount of mass every other planet in the Solar System has combined. It is 487.62 million miles from the Sun, about or 778 million kilometers. A year on Jupiter is around 11.86 Earth years, while its days are very fast- being only about 9 hours and 56 minutes. A massive hurricane-like storm on the planet nearly three times the diameter of Earth called the Great Red Spot is well known for its massive size and old age, being over 300 years old and still active, though it has decreased in size. Saturn is the second largest planet and sixth planet from the Sun. Even though Saturn is almost the size of Jupiter, Saturn only has around a third of its mass. It is only an eighth the average density of Earth, so if Saturn were put in water, it would float. Saturn orbits the sun from 1.4 billion km or 891 million miles. A year on Saturn is roughly 29.45 Earth years, while a day on Saturn is only about 10.7 hours, or 10 hours and 33 minutes. Saturn is known for is massive rings, especially compared to other gas giants. It has the most orbiting moons at 292, which is more than double Jupiter's amount of known moons. The seventh planet from the Sun is one of the two ice giants called Uranus. While not as big as Saturn or Jupiter, it is still several times Earth's mass and size. Uranus has one of the lowest temperatures of the planets in the Solar system at around -224 degrees Celsius or -371 degrees Fahrenheit. While years on Uranus last 84 Earth years and days only last 17 hours and 14 minutes, Uranus has an extreme tilt on its axis at 82.23 degrees- compared to Earth only being tilted ~15 degrees, causes it to have 42 years of continuous sunlight followed by 42 years of continuous darkness. It is the third largest planet in the Solar System behind Saturn and Jupiter in terms of diameter. Neptune is the eighth, final and farthest planet from the Sun, being 4.5 billion kilometers or 2.8 billion miles away from the Sun. It orbits every 164.8 Earth years, while its days are around 16 hours and 6 minutes long. It is the densest of the giant planets, being slightly smaller than Uranus but having more mass. It is most well known for being the planet farthest away from the Sun. Because of its incredible distance from the Sun, temperatures are also below freezing at around -218 degrees Celsius or -361 degrees Fahrenheit. Neptune was originally discovered when astronomers thought Uranus's orbit was off, and hypothesized that the gravity of another nearby massive body- likely a planet was affecting Uranus's orbit, which led to the discovery of Neptune. There are more planetary objects, like Pluto used to be designated the ninth planet. Even farther away than Neptune, its orbital distance ranges from 4.5 to 7.3 billion kilometers or 2.8 to 4.6 billion miles due to its highly elliptical orbit. As a result, its years are very long, being equivalent to 247.94 Earth years, though its days are only 6 Earth days and 9 hours long. It is tiny, being smaller than The Moon, meaning it has essentially no considerable atmosphere. It is also very cold, being -229 degrees Celsius or -380 degrees Fahrenheit.