To be lucky is to be statistically at a disadvantage in a situation that is either heavily dependent on chance or entirely on chance. If you get a good output against the fact that the good output in a situation is unlikely, then that makes you lucky. An example of this is winning the lottery. If you bought one lottery ticket, that means your chances of winning which is the good output, is anywhere from 1 in 10,000 to 1 in 10,000,000 give or take. 

Alternatively, to be unlucky is to be statistically at an advantage in a chance-based situation, and ending up with the bad output or result. If you had an 90% or 1 in 10 chance to successfully win something but don't, that makes you unlucky, seeing as you ended up losing or getting the bad or negative output when you were more likely to get the good or positive output instead.

Luck- and adversely unluckiness are effectively vague words that play on statistics and outcome. Win a prize from a wheel? Congratulations, you are lucky, but more specifically if that wheel had 20 subdivisions and 1 winning plate, you won an unlikely scenario which is 1 in 20. If the wheel was reversed and you lost, sorry! You had a 19 in 20 chance of winning and you lost an unlikely scenario, which you could just say "I was just unlucky."

There are various superstitions revolving around the idea of luck, for example the four-leaf clover. The four leaf clover is associated with luck because how rare it is to find out it nature. Four-leaf clovers are incredibly hard to find; stumbling onto one on accident would be incredibly lucky because the statistics appear to show that naturally growing ones are very rare.

Another implementation of the idea of luck is in various kinds of games. For starters, there are gambling games and betting, where players can bet an amount of money in exchange for a chance- usually a small chance if winning back what you paid, plus extra- that is if you win of course. In group games such as Poker, the bigger the bet you or anyone playing makes, the bigger the earnings for the winning player. You can call winning these high-stakes high reward games "lucky".

Luck also appears in video games. Typically either in the form of lootboxes- a box or package with one or an assortment of digital items of various rarities, or a gacha, where players can collect various digital collectables of various rarities. High rarity items would obviously entail having a very small chance to get by standard means, making getting a digital collectable of incredibly low chance "lucky". There are also games with a "luck" stat for certain features such as fishing or mining, where it is a numerical stat that determines the chance of something happening, and the player can get items to improve there luck stat where the game takes the stat boost from the item that the player uses and boosts the luck. If you had a 10% chance to catch a red fish and you got a fishing rod that improves luck by 5%, the game may either increase your luck to 15% via addition, or alternatively increase your luck to 10.5% by using multiplication to determine that 5% of 10 is 0.5% and then add the 0.5% to the 10% as the "luck" boost.

Overall, luck simply refers to a vague statement about statistics and chance, typically winning unlikely odds in your favor.