An electrolyte, or electrolytes are not one single type of particle, but a family of materials that your body uses for upkeep and maintaining bodily functions.

The most common type of electrolyte is sodium, which is an essential mineral that regulates fluid balance, maintains blood pressure, and enables nerve and muscle function. Sodium as an electrolyte is found inside and outside cells, maintaining fluid balance to prevent dehydration. It is also crucial for muscle contractions, transmitting nerve impulses and helping send nerve signals. This is also why in intense exercise, your sweat has a salty taste to it, as sodium is one of two elements that make table salt. The sodium aids in allowing your body to manipulate fluid in it, and your body contains a lot of it- however excess sodium can be dangerous as excess sodium can cause high blood pressure (hypertension) by drawing too much water into the bloodstream, cause organ damage, particularly to the brain, kidneys and heart, and cause thirst.

Another common electrolyte- and one every associates with bananas- is potassium. Similar to sodium, potassium helps with maintaining fluid balance in the body by managing the pressure of fluids inside of cells, ensuring proper hydration and cellular function. It also helps with muscular and heart contraction- particularly the heart, where adequate potassium levels in the heart helps keep the heartbeat regular and prevent muscle weakness in other muscles. Potassium helps maintain blood flow like sodium, however it counteracts the negative impacts of high sodium intake, reducing cardiovascular diseases, such as stroke. Finally, it also helps reduce the calcium loss through urine, protecting bone density and reducing the risk of kidney stones. 
Too little potassium can cause hypokalemia, which brings about muscle weakness, constipations, fatigue, and in more serious cases, severe cardiac arrhythmia, also known as irregular heartbeat. Alternatively, too much potassium is often associated with kidney disease and can leas to dangerous, life-threatening heart rhythms.

Electrolytes are an important element in helping the body maintain standard bodily functions and survival.