Fear is a natural human reaction to be scared of something. Fear goes all the way back to prehistoric days, where creatures developed the fear emotion to naturally deter themselves away from things that are possibly dangerous from dangerous looking places to poisonous looking items to ferocious-looking predators. However, fear can come in many different shapes and sizes because anything can evoke a feeling, with one of those being fear- even if it doesn't really make sense.

A fear of something- particularly and irrational fear of something is denoted by a root word followed by the suffix "-phobia", which means "a fear of". One of the most common fears is arachnophobia, which is the fear of arachnids, primarily spiders. People with arachnophobia may feel fear (obviously), panic, sweating, and avoidance of areas where spiders might be present. It often stems from evolutionary threats, traumatic experiences or cultural conditioning- as with pretty much any other phobia.

Another very common fear is acrophobia, which is an intense, irrational fear of heights. It is an anxiety disorder that can cause severe panic, vertigo, dizziness, and an urge to retreat. in elevated situations or being in an obviously elevated place including balconies, ladders, high-rise buildings, bridges, steep stairs, ledges, and so on. Acrophobia can stem from a variety of things, like being an innate evolutionary survival mechanism designed to prevent one from falling and getting hurt, a traumatic experience that involved heights or falling, or simply imbalance.

Some phobias are silly and ironic, such as aibohphobia. Aibohphobia is the fear of palindromes, which is a type of word that when spelled backwards- is still spelled the exact same- such as the word "racecar", or "tacocat" or "poop". The ironic part, is that "aibohphobia" spelled backwards, is still "aibohphobia", making the word itself a palindrome. The term simply exists as a humerous, non-clinical term that serves as a funny joke on palindromes and phobias.

Phobias can actually treated through various mechanisms. The most common "cure" for a phobia is exposure therapy. Exposure therapy is exactly what it sounds like- gradually exposing the patient to the thing they fear, typically starting with less extreme things such as showing a picture of spiders to an arachnophobe, and slowly "increasing the dose" until they handle live (harmless) spiders in order to desensitize them to their fear. Another way that phobias can be cured it Cognitive Behavioral Therapy or CBT, which aims to help patients identify and challenge irrational thoughts about their fear, and replace it with calmer, rational, more balanced perspectives to level out their thoughts on their fear. Finally in some cases, medication- particularly anti-anxiety medications may be used in conjunction with therapy to treat someones' fear.