One of the previous sample data files here discussed the planets and even Pluto which is considered a dwarf planet, however there are more than just planet out in space.

The Sun- also known as Sol, its eight planets and numerous celestial bodies, dwarf planets, asteroids, comets and planetesimals in its orbit are only one star system in billions of stars within the Milky Way galaxy, which itself is only one galaxy out of billions more all throughout the entire universe. The Sun sits on the Orion Arm of the Milky Way, also known as the Orion Spur, or Orion-Cygnus arm, a minor arm that sits between two larger arms- the Sagittarius Arm and Perseus Arm. The Orion Arm is approximately 3,500 light-years wide and around 20,000 light-years in length.

The Sun is roughly halfway out from the center of the galaxy, approximately 26,000 to 27,000 light-years from the galactic center. This vast distance makes the Sun's orbit around the galaxy incredibly long, taking 230 to 240 million years to complete a galactic year, meaning that the last time the Sun had completed an orbit, dinosaurs still roamed the Earth, and were still far from extinction.

The nearest star system is the Alpha Centauri star system, consisting of three stars- Alpha Centauri A, Alpha Centauri B, and Proxima Centauri, all of which are around the size of the Sun, sitting as close as 4.24 light-years or 1.3 parsecs (Proxima Centauri). This star system and particularly Proxima Centauri has been the closest to the Sun for around 32,000 years, and will appear to be the closest for another 25,000 years. While Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B are roughly the size and mass of the Sun, Proxima Centauri is only a little more than a tenth the size and mass of the Sun- or slightly larger than the planet Jupiter. Proxima Centauri is not visible from Earth with the naked eye.

The other two stars Alpha Centauri A or alternatively known as Rigil Kentaurus and Alpha Centauri B or Toliman are sun-like stars (class G and K respectively, while the Sun is a class G star), being much larger and massive than Proxima Centauri, having 1.1 Solar masses and 0.9 Solar masses respectively. The two stars share an orbital period around a common center- the point in space where the two stars orbit as they are similar in mass and therefore gravity, having an orbital position beyond their surface- around 79 years. Their orbit is highly elliptical, so the distance between Rigil Kentaurus and Toliman can vary anywhere between 35.6 astronomical units (roughly equivalent to the distance between Pluto and the Sun) and as small as 11.2 astronomical units (roughly the distance between Saturn and the Sun). These two stars together make up Alpha Centauri AB, and are the brightest stars in the night sky behind the Sirius system (specifically Sirius A) and Canopus. Proxima Centauri is 13,000 astronomical units or 0.21 light-years from Alpha Centauri AB, roughly equivalent to 430 times Neptune's orbit from the Sun, or simply 13,000 times the distance between the Earth and Sun.