AI or artificial intelligence is essentially a glorified prediction machine. When an AI- specifically an LLM or Large Language Model is prompted, it is essentially just predicting the best response to the given prompt. LLMs are a specific kind of AI that are particularly trained to respond extensively rather than exclusively predict such as an autocomplete AI, though they are trained upon the same fundamentals. Without dialogue-specific training, an LLM would just try to predict what should come after a prompt, similar to the query autocomplete common in search engine browsers.

Since LLMs work on a prediction and confidence basis, it is important to know what an AI will be predicting. For example, an AI can use training data to use a letter to predict the next letter after that. In this case if you wanted to predict the word "lexicography", the AI would have to predict that after "L" comes "E", then "X", and so on. This form however has many weaknesses such as complexity. Per prediction, the model only has 1 letter of context. To spell "lexicography", the LLM would have to make 12 correct predictions. This applies to phrases and whole sentences as well, meaning that using a letter-based prediction model would fall apart when complex words and phrases are expected, even if adequate training time and training data is applied to the LLM.

There are 2 solutions to fix this, and the more obvious of the two would be a word-based prediction model. An LLM that predicts the next word using the previous word now knows each and every word it encounters in its training data, and has more context to work with, such as associate "hungry" and "eat" rather than successfully predict an entire sentence using only one letter as context. This downside to this is that the English language- or any language for that matter has thousands and thousands of words- some even millions, which can all be used in different ways for different contexts. Even if the LLMs vocabulary size was restricted to the average human, that would still be around 20,000 to 50,000 unique words, resulting in a high amount of parameters even in cases where the AI has fewer neurons, and the AI would fail when encountering a new word that is not in its vocabulary, even if the word is just a variant of an existing word such as "nonchalant" and "nonchalantly"- even if "nonchalant" is a known word in the LLMs vocabulary, "nonchalantly" isn't and will crash the LLM as it is an unknown character.

The solution that many consumer and research grade AIs use is tokenization and subwords. Take the word "uniquely" as an example, where an LLM during the tokenization process could break "uniquely" into common collections of characters like "uni which are prevalent in other words such as "university", "universe", "unicorn" and this examples' root word "unique", as well as common suffixes such as "-ly" which are common in other words such as "suddenly", "viciously", or "longingly". An AI may tokenize this into the tokens "unique", "uni" and "ly", and reuse those tokens like "uni-" and "-ly" in other worlds like "unite" or "wonderfully". This provides enough context to determine correct words and phrases without making an extensive dictionary that needs to account for an ever evolving and expanding language.