I will now write various sentences to describe how the English language works. Every sentence as you can see, begins with a capital letter unless it is a noun like "United States" or "Jerry", since those are names that refer to actual entities or people. Walmart or Spider-Man are also examples of a noun in use. Moreover, when in writing, when adding quotation marks denoted as the two dots at the beginning and end of a word of a sentence, it is used to either quote already existing text like from a book, or just a name. Another big part of writing language is the comma. It is used to denote a break or separation in between ideas within the same sentence as opposed to a period, which is the dot at the end of sentence that denotes that the sentence is finished. There is so much more to cover when it comes to language and the many ways to write sentences while keeping it grammatically correct. For example, there is an variant of a noun called a pronoun. Pronouns are used to refer to an entity without having an actual name for that object. As you remember, "Jerry" is a noun as that is a person's name used to refer to a person. Jerry's pronoun would be "he" or "him", assuming that he is a man. Therefore, when I refer to Jerry in a sentence, I first establish him as a topic by bringing him up, which then I can refer to him in the future by calling him "he", "him", or "his". There are other types of words such as a verb which is commonly simplified in schools as action words to help students remember. Examples of action words include "walking", "running", "sleeping", "eating" and "playing". An example sentence including everything mentioned so far would be "Jerry was sleeping in his bed." That one sentence includes a proper uppercasing, a noun which would be the name "Jerry", a pronoun that refers to Jerry using the word "his", and a verb- which in this case is the word "sleeping". Like nouns, verbs also have a variant called and adverb. An adverb is a word that modifies verbs, adjectives, or even other adverbs, by describing how, when, where, or what degree and action occurs. An example of an adverb is "quickly". Now if we take a verb such as "running" and combine it with and adverb we can get a sentence such as "Mark is running very quickly" or "Anna is sleeping very soundly". I could also say that I am writing this training text very quickly, which is a valid use of a verb and adverb in a sentence- "writing", "training", and "quickly" respectively. Another type of word is an adjective. An adjective is a part of speech that modifies or describes a noun or pronoun, offering details on qualities, size, color, or quantity on the subject. You could say "Jerry's red bed" which describes the bed to be red, or "Heather's soft, purple blanket" which describes Heather's blanket to be both soft and purple. If I wanted to use excess amounts of adjectives in a grammatically correct sentence, I could say "My big, blue, fast, shiny, smooth, powerful, three supercars are stored in the garage." In that sentence I use various adjectives such as "big", "fast" and "three" to describe the topic, which are my supercars that are stored in the garage. There is so much more to language than one could possibly explain in one sitting and yet- many people use language so easily and normally in their day to day lives using this seemingly complex system of speech to talk about normal things without even thinking about the intricacy of this system. It proves how useful this language system and frankly, any other language system that has such a system that allows different topics to be focused and further described. Sometimes we need to query something, and that is were the question mark or "?" comes in. The question mark makes something queried. For example, "Do you have a big bed?" This sentence queries if the adjective- in this case "big" is an accurate description of the topic, which is the bed. If the bed is big, then the answer is positive or yes, otherwise negative or no. Do you water your plants everyday? Yes. Can I drive the car into a building? No. So on, so forth, the question mark allows someone to ask about the state of another things' being. You can also provide inconclusive answers to a query. When is the bus arriving? Soon. Where did you leave it? I don't know. Will you be able to make it today? Probably. Next up is the colon. The colon notated by the two dots ":" allows the speaker or writer to introduce a form a lists, explanations, examples or amplification. It signifies a note to follow and separates two ideas- particularly clauses of quotations. The following is an example of a colon in correct grammatical use: "He needed three items: a map, a compass, and water." This separates but links the two distinct topics of someone needing three items and listing those three items. Another common use of the colon is to separate units of time. For example, four thirty-three PM can be denoted as 4:33 or 16:33 in military time. In measuring time, one can write 16:47:32 to denote 16 hours, 47 minutes and 32 seconds.