Everyone is familiar with the standard number systems- zero or "0", one or "1", two or "2", three or "3", four or "4", five or "5", six or "6", seven or "7", eight or "8", and nine of "9". While this isn't well known, this numeric system is referred to as Hindu-Arabic Numerals or simply Arabic numerals, as they are based off of the old Arabic numeral system. However, as it would seem obvious, these numbers were not always the dominant nor only numeral system used to denote numbers and values.

The most well known number system outside of the Arabic numeral system are the Roman numerals. Roman numerals were used by the Roman Republic and Empire as well as ancient Romans. Roman numerals are quite different from the Arabic system, both in appearance and how it works.

One is denoted by "I". Two is denoted as "II". This goes on to "III" to denote three, however four is written as "IV". This is because five is written as "V", hence the placement of "I" before "V" means "one before five". Roman numerals follow this logic, with 6 to 8 written as "VI", "VII", and "VIII" respectively, meaning "one more than five", "two more than five" and "three more than "five". Next, nine is written as "IX" which following previous logic means "one before ten", with "X" as ten, "XI" as eleven, and so on. It continues as you would expect it to: XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XVII, XVIII, XIX, XX, so on.

Roman numerals do extend out to larger numbers, with "L" denoting 50, "C" meaning 100, "D" representing 500 and "M" denoting 1000. Notably, "M" being related to 1000 is the etymology behind modern units using "mil-" or "mili-" or any other m-based prefix like "mega-" to denote something that is in units of thousands or a thousand. Roman numerals follow the rules established- 40 is denoted as XL and not XXXX. Roman numerals do have limitations that are less of a problem compared to Arabic numerals, for example a relatively small number like 3,999 is denoted as MMMCMXCIX, for which larger numbers cannot be represented using the established rules of Roman numerals.

Roman numerals also do have a multiplicative function, as a bar over a symbol multiplies its value by 1,000. A bar over "V" would equal 5,000 as "V" equals five, and 5 * 1,000 equals 5,000. However, there does not appear to be a specific symbol that denotes division.

Roman numerals have gone "extinct" (in natural use) due to its harsh limitations such as the absence of a symbol that represents zero, limited representation like having to denote large numbers like 3,999 as MMMCMXCIX, and complex mathematics being significantly harder than with Arabic numerals. However, Roman numerals stay alive as a stylistic choice- the Super Bowl, which is the largest sporting event in the United States uses Roman numerals to indicate which tournament it is, so instead of saying "Super Bowl 60" or "The 60th Super Bowl", it is stylized as "Super Bowl LX". Another example of Roman numerals being used as a style is the Artemis Lunar program. The Artemis programs is broken down into the "Artemis I", "Artemis II" and "Artemis III" missions. One of the most common use of Roman numerals is to stylize clocks as they only go up to twelve, or for monarchs/names, where someone may take the name of their ancestors, so if someone named John is the fourth "John" in their lineage, they can be known as "John IV" which is pronounced as "John the fourth".
