The law of supply and demand is and economic law that describes how markets for products and/or services relate to what their needed by consumers looking for those items. In simple terms, if you have a lot of bananas and everyone wants them, the supply is high and demand is high- the resultant value of the bananas would be balanced if you were aiming to maximize profits. In another scenario where you have a lot of bananas but nobody wants them, you would not make much money and the value of bananas would go down, so on so forth. In a scenario where you have few bananas but everyone wants them, to maximize your profits, you could raise the value of bananas as most would do in order to make the most money out of the few stock you have.

The law of supply and demand is a very simple yet fundamental rule of economy that allows people to track and infer how the price of products, materials and services may ebb and flow. If you have a stone mining business but no person or business wants or needs stone, your stone is essentially valueless. If you had a farm market and everyone near you needs food, you can make a lot of money selling produce at a good price (but not overpriced) to maximize profits.

One thing to note is that eventually a business or service will eventually encounter competition. If we go back to the farm market example, another person may choose to open their own farm market, which the superior business would be able to gain the most profit. That means that you need to find a way to spend less money on making your product- in this case food while making more, higher quality product, making better deals for both you and potential customers to outcompete your competitor. You can also choose to prioritize in something with a high demand that your competition does not do well. Think about it like this:

If your farm market produces bananas best, and your competition produces strawberries best, if the demand for bananas goes up, use what you already have to increase your bananas production to profit off of the increased demand for bananas and beat out your competition in one field- being banana production in this case.

Of course that is a very specific case scenario, but taking advantage of fundamental economic laws like supply and demand allows you to make good business and economic decisions.