Freedom gives idiots a chance to weaponize their stupidity. Order gives power-hungry people whips to enslave who they perceive lesser.

This quote encapsulates the main cons of both total freedom and total order, so in practicality, the way to get the best of both worlds is to balance the two, and have both in regulation.

Freedom allows anyone to do as they please, but of course- some people may act in ways that cause people to do actions that negatively affect others, regardless of intent. Someone may negatively affect another using there freedom to do as they please, for example choosing to speed and run red lights on purpose just for fun, or alternatively attacking someone because they dislike them.

Order brings unity among a group of people and stability between all of them, allowing for strong management and the completion of complex tasks. Though the problem entails with the fact that everything that needs to be led will have a leader, or leaders. To have order amongst others, one must give up some of their freedoms to their leader or leaders, as well as to respect the freedoms of other people, and they will do so back. But it is human nature to want more and ensure yourself with more- be it resources, power, etc. Eventually leadership becomes corrupted, and those who have been deemed leadership will begin to serve themselves and make those "below" them bow down to them and serve simply because they are designated the leader.

Total freedom brings anarchy, where there are no rules- no right and wrong, everyone for themselves. This is ultimately unstable, and people that agree or simply seek shelter will gather into groups and form their own systems of order.

Total order is totalitarian, where the leadership is unrestricted and the people under the leadership have no say in what is and is not in their hands. Everything is dictated by the leadership- be it corruption or simply overprotection.

In reality, a balance between freedom and order is ideal. Much of your freedoms are guaranteed so that you may do as you please, in exchange for order that you give up some of your freedoms, or have to process certain wants or pursuits of yours to go through leadership beforehand, so that you can retain as much of your freedoms as you have, while still respecting the freedoms of the other people that you live in order.
