For the most part, Humans have existed on well- Earth. However in recent human history, missions to outer space and most recently the moon have been ever growing.

The Artemis program is the name of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or NASA's most recent space missions, particularly aimed at going back to the Moon and expand on what was established during the Apollo missions of the 1960s and 1970s.

The Artemis program began in 2019 with the Artemis I missions, which was focused on unmanned moon missions to test space launches, transport and lunar reconnaissance. It serves as a baseline mission to help NASA gain real data on the space environment and specifications on how the Artemis program will move forward.

The next phase of the Artemis program started in 2022 and was completed in 2026 with the Artemis II mission. The Artemis II mission was the first manned lunar mission in over 50 years, deploying four astronauts to travel to an orbit the Moon in the span of roughly 10 days. This mission serves as a test for life support systems, survival systems, manned travel, and manned long-distance communication between ground control and the crew, as well as further reconnaissance regarding the environment around the Moon and any potential landing zones and geological features for the Artemis III mission, and general knowledge about the Moon.

The next and final main phase of the Artemis campaign is the Artemis III missions, which are yet to come, but set to begin around 2027 to 2029. This phase of the Artemis program is set to eventually land humans on the Moon for the first time in decades, and lay the foundation for later lunar and space missions ranging from lunar colonies, to resource operations and potential space launches from the Moon instead of Earth. Future Artemis missions after Artemis III are partially planned and mentioned, however those rely on the success and extracted data from the Artemis III missions.

The Artemis program serves as NASA and humanity's stepping stone to revolutionizing space travel, space technology and becoming a spacefaring civilization and future endeavors such as Martian missions, Vesuvian (Venus) missions, Solar missions such as a Dyson sphere- a superstructure designed to harvest power directly from an entire star, and even missions to travel beyond the Solar System such as the Alpha Centauri system, the nearest star system to the Sol system.