The complete English alphabet in order is written as "A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z". In lowercase letters, it is "a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z". The English alphabet consists of 26 unique letters, five of which are vowels and twenty are consonants. The letter "Y" can either stand as a vowel or a consonant, depending on it's placement on a word. For example, "Y" is a vowel in the words "gym", "fly", "baby", and "rhythm", while it is a consonant in the words "yellow", "you", "yes", "young", "canyon", "lawyer", and "backyard". The English alphabet system is part of the Indo-European family, and has its origin rooted in old Germanic roots from the Angles and Saxons immigrating from the Germanic regions with middle French influence due to invading Normans starting with the Norman conquest of 1066 until the late 14th century, approximately 1362-1400 A.D. English is part of the Germanic group of languages, where it's origins can be tied back to the Germanic tribes namely, the Anglo-Saxons who eventually found the Kingdoms of Sussex or the South Saxons, Wessex or the West Saxons, Essex or the East Saxons, East Anglia, Northumbria, Mercia, and Kent, alongside independent kingdoms of the native Celts such as Demnonia also known as Devon or Cornwall, and Welsh kingdoms, prior to the unification under one kingdom as England. Despite that, the main kingdoms were actually East Anglia, Mercia, Northumbria and Wessex, which were the most prominent kingdoms before the unification of England and the Norman conquest. This period generally known as the heptarchy period, though there weren't exactly seven kingdoms as the prefix "hepta-" seems to imply- simply there were seven main kingdoms, which came to an end in the 8th century under those 4 dominant kingdoms. Around this time, what would have been spoken is considered "Old English" and not very recognizable today by modern English standards. The Kingdoms of England came under brief control of Kingdoms of Denmark until they reunified and became the English kingdom once again in 1042. The Normans gained the English throne and elite positions until the War of the Roses in 1453 to 1487 took place, with the reclaim of the English throne by English-Welsh royalty. The English and Scots were brought into a personal union in 1603 when Scottish king James VI became James I, king of England, before finally becoming the United Kingdom in 1707. By this time, English had transformed into Shakespearean English and would further evolve and branch out into various English accents we know today, such as the American, Australian, and British accents as the main ones.